---
title: Scrap Brain
date: 2022-12-14 19:00:00 +1100
---

## Paper Cut
Well my hubris has gotten to me: I'm unable to complete my build.
Remember in my last post how I said I went from a Radeon RX 6800 to a
Radeon RX 6900 XT? Turns out that the power requirements go from two
6+2 PCI-e PINs to three. Unfortunately, my power supply looks to assume
that two is sufficient and didn't supply a third cable.

It doesn't help that the motherboard is incredibly ambiguous regarding
whether I should use both an 8-pin and 4-pin for power or solely the
8-pin; it lists both options but doesn't say when I should use one over
the other. If I need both, then I am in a further pickle of not having
enough slots to plug into my power supply altogether. For reference, I
would need five PCI-e/CPU slots when I only have four.

I think to play it safe, I will get a new power supply. From some quick
research though, not many power supplies come with five CPU/PCI-e
outputs. I might have my work cut out for me...

## Sighs of Relief
It wasn't a bad experience though, this issue is more of a clerical
error than a catastrophe. I was _much_ more worried about some of the
tasks around it.

### CPU Installation
I was not expecting this to be a drama but it exceeded my expectations
before quickly coming back to reality. The chipset was for an LGA 1700
slot which at a first glance looked very consumer friendly. I remember
being worried about CPU installation last time due to the precision
required to not damage pins. It was a non-issue this time as the
notches on the CPU and the motherboard itself made it a breeze to
position.

The problem came to securing it. Enough force goes into the clamp
itself that it feels as though you will snap the CPU open. It does not
help that the cover (which they tell you to keep on throughout the
process) appears to impede the brace that gets put on the CPU. My cover
ended up popping out during this process and flying across the room.

Once my confidence was there that the positioning and force on the
brace was appropriate, it was a fairly siimple task. I could have
looked at a YouTube video (which I did for later installations), but I
assumed that the instructions given in guides for both the CPU and
motherboard would quell my worries. I think in their attempts to make
guides accessible in many languages and cultures, ambiguity has been
introduced in what to expect from the installation. Hopefully these
providers will take advantage of QR codes and the like to add more
detail in the future.

### Heatsink Installation
_This_ is something I expected to be a drama. During this is when I
relearnt that video tutorials are a massive boon toward understanding
how you can install individual pieces. Despite this, I'm noticing a
worrying trend of ambiguity. I know it's nitpicky, but I could not
tell if the top of the thermal paste is a lid or something to cut off (it was the former).

I always worry about thermal paste as you cannot really tell if you
have gotten right or not. Given the current state of the build however,
it will be a while until I know if was sufficient or not.

### M.2 Installation
I am pleasantly surprised by how easy this installation was and how
positively it impacted power supply organisation. Just insert at an
angle and screw it in place and it's done! When my last PC was built,
this was not commonplace, so this is my first chance to give it a go.

I am a little concerned I hadn't grounded myself during one of the
installations and intrdocued some static into one of the drives.
Similar to before though, I won't find out if anything is wrong until I
get this booted up.

### I/O Shield
So this is probably obvious to many but the I/O shields do, in fact,
fit in the slot they are designed to go in. I managed to get myself
very righteous in believing that it didn't which took a good 15 - 30
minutes of research to realise that I simply hadn't had it at the
correct angle. Learn from my misplaced confidence!

## What's next?
My computer is now sitting safely under a towel to hopefully stop it
from gathering too much dust. Until I get a new power supply that meets
my needs, that's where it will stay. I aim to get some research done
tonight and go out to grab a part tomorrow (if it's in stock).

Otherwise, I hope you have all have a great day! Next time I hope to
report on a running Linux machine and start planning out the good
stuff.
